Zint and libzint
----------------
Zint is a suite of programs to allow easy encoding of data in any of the
wide range of public domain barcode standards and to allow integration of
this capability into your own programs.

Zint is able to encode data in the following formats:

Code 11, Standard Code 2 of 5, IATA Code 2 of 5, Industrial Code 2 of 5,
Interleaved Code 2 of 5, Code 2 of 5 Data Logic, ITF-14, Deutche Post
Leitcode, Deutche Post Identcode, UPC-A, UPC-E, EAN-2, EAN-5, EAN-8,
EAN-13, UK Plessey, MSI Plessey, Telepen Alpha, Telepen Numeric, Code 39,
Extended Code 39, Code 93, PZN, Code 23, LOGMARS, Codabar, Pharmacode, Code
128, EAN-128, NVE-18, Code 16k, PDF417, MicroPDF417, Two-Track Pharmacode,
PostNet, PLANET, Australia Post 4-State Symbols, RM4SCC, USPS OneCode, GS1
DataBar, DataBar-14, DataBar Limited, DataBar Extended, DataBar Stacked,
Composite Symbology, Data Matrix, QR Code, Maxicode, Aztec Code, EAN-13,
Micro QR, Korea Post Barcode, HIBC Code 128, HIBC Code 39, HIBC Data Matrix,
HIBC PDF417, HIBC MicroPDF417, HIBC QR Code, HIBC Aztec Code, Japanese Postal
Code, Code 49, Channel Code, Code One, Grid Matrix, FIM and Flattermarken.


PROJECT STATUS
--------------
Version 2.3.0:
This release features a complete rebuild of QR Code and Micro QR Code
functionality which now:

* Automatically detects and adjusts to Japanese characters
* Supports GS1 encoding
* Does not require the qrencode library.

Also new in this release is Grid Matrix support which similarly supports
Chinese character encoding.

Version 2.3.1:
Correction of some minor bugs in Code 128 and Data Matrix, addition of
--notext option to CLI and better operation of --scale option which now
scales human readable text and MaxiCode.

SPECIAL NOTE: Codablock-F has now been REMOVED from this project because of
problems implimenting this standard. For full details see the project website.

Version 2.3.2:
More bug corrections including important corrections to RSS Expanded,
Maxicode and ISBN.

Version 2.4:
Simplified GUI. Addition of "render" functions provides an API for
glabels. Corrections to 4-state codes. Simplification in QR code. Added
--dump option and support for reading from stdin.

Version 2.4.1:
Contains bugfixes for Data Matrix and QR Code. Add option to produce multiple
files from the command line. Add option to change font size in PNG images.
Tidy up information for creating Debian packages and for compiling on MS
Visual Studio. Correct bug preventing compilation without PNG support.

Version 2.4.2:
Fix bugs in batch processing - this now works from the command line.

CONTACT ME
----------
The home of libzint is:

	<http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/zint>

and the home for Zint documentation is:

	<http://www.zint.org.uk>

For feature requests or bug reports please join the mailing list at

	<https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/zint-barcode>

or send an e-mail to

	<zint-barcode@lists.sourceforge.net>

BEFORE POSTING TO THIS LIST
---------------------------
Please note the following points...
* You do not need to join the list to post messages, although joining
  the list will usually mean your request is answered more promptly.
* Zint is primarily developed for Linux. If you are using another platform
  then we will be less able to help you, although we will do so if we can.
  We cannot provide support for commercial packages such as MS Office or
  Crystal Reports.
* Always ensure you are using the latest version of Zint before posting bug
  reports - the bug you are reporting may have been fixed already.
* Please remember to state what operating system you are using and include
  enough information to allow us to reproduce the error - including input
  data if appropriate.
* Please DO NOT post messages asking for us to change the license
  arrangements. You will be ignored. If you want a barcode encoder with a
  different license then please look elsewhere.
* Please remember that Zint is developed by volunteers - don't be surprised
  if we are unable to help you or if it takes a long time to answer your
  questions.

Thanks for your interest in libzint.
Happy encoding.

Robin.
